##Desired state configuration 
avoids configuration drift and sets a static configuration.
It ensures that the desired onfiguratin remains static regardless of what other applications are installed.
A DSC script is created with all the required settings and pushes it out to all the machines of your choice.
Allows you to manage at scale. When the DSC is run it will create a .mof file for every computer. The LCM is
a component on every machine that will read the DCS MOF file and install. 

You can deploy via push or setup a pull server where we use a centralised server to pull the mof file

Multiple activation keys MAC 
50 USERS

Key management service KMS
Create a kms role volume activatiom managment tools. Add the customer volume activation key
All works via DNS useing a srv locator record. Activation threshold are 5 servers or 5 clients. Activation validity period is 180

Active-Directory based activation
very similar to kms - recommended model does not reqiure any kms host, requires 2012 servers and win 8 and up

automatic virtual machine activation.
install a AVMA key on the host, has to run datacenter 2016 
convert eval to standard using avma key
dism /online /set-edition:standardcor /productkey: /accepteula
slmgr /ato '= activate'
slmgr /dlv

##upgrade msft 2008 r2 / 2012 r2 to 2016

# inplace upgrade
 
not recommended due to issues down the line.
between versions, server 2012r2 to 2016. You would have to carry out a inplace to 2012 from 2008.
between editions, standard to dacenter
between installation options, unsupported core to desktop
between languages, unsupported english to french

#clean install and migration

server migration tools = command-line and powershell
smigdeploy = distribution package and registration
powershell *smig* cmdlets = migrating roles, features, and settings

install migration tools on the destination server. run smigdeploy on the destination, specify the source machine and 
a package will be output. You run the package on the source server. 

##plan for virtualization
Microsoft assessment and planning toolkit
will allow you to scan all servers and 

##manage and maintain images
install.wim file are the container of all editions 
nanoserver.wim  
use dism for configuring the wim files.
get-windowsimage
get-windowsdriver

##disks and filesystems

sector sizes and allocations.
disks are broken down into tracks, sectors, clusters
spliced into tracks, made up of sectores. A contiguation of the secotr size is 
known as a cluster or in windows a AUS allocation secotir size. 
The smallest amount of size a file can be stored on a disk.
if we format the disk to a 16kb aus. If the user creates a 1 kb file
then we waste 15kb of space. the size on general tab is the size of the file
and the size on disk is the size of the cluster

what partition style are we going to use. 
MBR or GPT

MBR =
partition type stored on boot sector
partition limit 4 primry partitions, 3 logical and 1 extended
volume size up to 2tb
boot os yes
when to use older systems

GUID partition table
partition type stored with every partition
partition limit 128
volume size 18eb 
boot os ues, with uefi
when to use, where ever possible
 
##REFS
Data integrity
high availabilty
opimized for vms
prefered file system
limitations:
compression,encryption, deduplication,disk quotas,removable media, not bootable

##configure shares
configure via server manager for better options
upon creation. 